Hey guys, welcome back.
All right, so in this section what we're going to talk about is one
of the major tools we use to grow our Instagram accounts,
and those are shoutouts.
Now, have you ever noticed how if you're looking at someone
else's profile and you notice either one of the photos
just doesn't match the rest of them or just one of the more
recent posts that you saw just didn't seem to match what
they usually post, and then you looked at the caption
and you saw someone else being tagged in it?
Well, if you haven't seen it, it's actually really easy to find.
I'll show you, watch. On Innovation Station, literally the first one.
Simple Pickup Lines, I don't know why
I'm following them, but hey, look.
What I can do is I can just look down here.
Okay, they usually post sentences.
So this is not a sentence, this one. "I'm crying,
I'm so happy for them." Click that, look.
It's clearly not what they use, and then if we look at the bottom,
"Follow @reallydumbtweets for the funniest posts ever."
There you go.
That's a shoutout.
Let's see if we can find another one.
That's going to be a shoutout right there.
Then we go down to another one.
Let's say tutorials.gallery, and here it looks like they're all
the same, but I can probably just click through one.
Let's say @tutorials.gallery, and here it looks like they're
all the same, but I can probably just click through one.
Here you go.
"Follow @society.diy," that's not them,
that's @tutorials.gallery. This one,
"Follow @cooper_calligraphy."
OK.
That has nothing to do with them.
That is a shoutout.
So that's a shoutout.
Now you've seen it,
now you can never unsee it. Big accounts often use them
all the time and the way that it works is basically like
saying, "Hey, this other person posts really good stuff.
Check them out" or "This post is really funny. You
might like this account." In the land of Instagram,
everything runs off of reciprocity.
If we were all just islands of ourselves
who just posted and never collaborated with anybody else,
we would all grow at a much slower pace, and the
average Instagram user would follow far fewer people.
Since Instagram doesn't really facilitate
the process of cross collaboration,
this is kind of the informal way that people have managed to do it,
and it's through what we call shoutouts or shout for shouts.
Now, is there a difference between shoutouts
and shout for shouts? Well, a shoutout is
just when someone posts someone else's stuff and then
mentions them, and a shout for shout is when there's a trade,
they post something and then another
account posts something, and
oftentimes, if you go to a shoutout and click through to the
account that they're directing you to, if you go to that account,
usually the first or the post right
before the last one they have,
that links back to the original account,
because it's a reciprocity thing.
All right, so let's cover the five main types of shoutouts
we see out there and are open for us to use.
One is a timed shoutout,
number two is a permanent shoutout,
number three is a caption shoutout,
number four is a story shoutout, and
number five is a paid shoutout.
Okay, let's start with the first one.
So what is a timed shoutout?
Well, that's when someone reposts
a photo or video from you,
they tag you, and they only leave it up for a
certain amount of time. You typically see this
when a big account shouts out a smaller one, you also
generally just see it if someone's reposting something
from another account that isn't exactly
on brand with the rest of their posts.
This is probably the most common one actually you'll
see and it's what most people are open to, because
there's no permanent damage
if I post something that just doesn't jive with my group.
Those are the hardest to spot because they delete them, so every
time you go to their profile you have no idea how many of these
they have done.
If you go to the account Foundr, Nathan Chan at
one point was doing close to 6 to 7 of these a day.
Okay, he only posts like 5 or 6 times a day,
so he was posting more reposts and shoutouts
than he was even posting his own stuff.
You can't tell though, because he deletes it all.
Now the second one, permanent shoutouts.
Now, this is a little bit of a more hardcore one, it's
the same thing that we just said before,
but you leave it up permanently.
Now, this is something you see
typically with bigger brands.
Bigger brands will do this because they put a lot
more thought into when they repost someone,
and you also see it when they're reposting something
that just fits directly into the brand of the account. At
Innovation Station, I might do a permanent one
if someone made videos in a very similar
fashion to mine and they focused on a gadget.
I have no problem putting it up permanently. And it's no wonder
that a permanent shoutout is probably the most valuable
one and it's probably one of the hardest ones to get. If you can
get a permanent shoutout, good for you, but it's probably going to
cost a lot of money, or it's going to require
multiple shoutouts from you, if they're timed, or
also another permanent one yourself. Now, next one is a caption
shoutout, and this is probably the weakest of the weak tea,
it's when someone posts one of their own photos, has nothing
to do with you, but then they just mention you in the caption.
They might do this if they're posting something that's similar to your account, so they might say, "If you like this, you'd like this account."
They're not saying "This is from this account"
or "Check them out to see more like this."
It's usually kind of a little bit of an awkward thing.
The only time I ever see this is, again, when you have
big accounts doing it for really small ones, because
they don't want to dedicate an entire post to a small one,
but they might throw you a bone and throw you in the
caption, and if you're a small account, getting this
from a big account, it actually could be a big deal.
The next type of shoutout is a story
shoutout, and this is pretty simple.
I mean, you have a story, right?
So what you do is you add a little chunk in your story,
and that is it.
You just post to someone else's account.
You could say "Follow this person,"
that's very common,
or you post a chunk from their story or one of their posts,
put it in your story and then say "Follow this person."
This one is one of the most low risk ways of doing it,
because it's only up for a day automatically, you don't
even have to remember to go and delete it.
It also has limited effectiveness. I mean, it does work and
it's very common, you'll see it, but they
have to then go and type in that name.
That's not as valuable as someone
doing a post, putting in a caption,
lazy people, lazy finger, they just touch it and go to the
account. So once we get into stories, we'll try some of that,
but it requires a little more maintenance and it's kind of
a mixed bag with regards to, it's a low risk but kind of
low reward as well.
And then the last ones are paid shoutouts, and I don't have
to explain this one to you - sometimes you just pay for it.
A lot of times you can see a big account and they're
posting something that just makes no sense.
Oftentimes, it's just crap that says like "This person is
about to go private in X amount of time" or whatever,
and it disappears later, or maybe it's up for like, a day, and
if you go to that account, you do not see a reciprocal one.
Chances are that's a paid shoutout.
Now, let's see if we can find a
paid shoutout, it's relatively easy.
Let's say we go to an account that
does it all the time, @technology.
This idiot has 4.2 million, but you'll notice when they
post stuff that has nothing to do with them at all.
OK.
This is a product that's changing weight loss forever.
What does that have to do with anything that
they usually cover? Then you look at the bottom,
here you go.
"Check out this person's account."
And if I go here, do you see them posting
anything about technology? No, I don't think so.
They purchased that. Also,
why in the world would a 5 million follower account
post one with 19,000? Just doesn't make sense.
Paid shoutouts are a pretty easy way, if
you have some dough to throw out there,
you can definitely get followers.
The one caveat I have to say, this is a con to it, is that
often these are accounts with low engagement.
When we get into kind of the best practices or how to find
them, I'll talk to you about how you can tell very quickly if
they have good engagement and if they have fake followers.
So that's one thing you have to be aware of, some
of these accounts are just made in order to sell
shoutouts and sometimes they just... not so much.
What does it cost to buy a paid shoutout?
We'll talk about that later,
but they can range anywhere from
five dollars to several thousand.
All right guys, hopefully that's a good enough introduction
to the world of shoutouts and shout for shouts.
If you forgot, we have five different ones.
We have timed, we have permanent,
we have stories, we have caption
shoutouts, and then we have paid
shoutouts. There are a couple other really obscure
ones, but we'll hit on those a little bit later on.
Otherwise, questions, post in the Slack. See you next lecture.